---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "restful_resource List Resource - terraform-provider-restful"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# restful_resource (List Resource)





<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `path` (String) The API path of the List Resource, relative to the `base_url` of the provider. The response, optionally filtered by `selector`, shall be a JSON array.
- `resource_path` (String) The value of the `path` attribute used to compose the Resource Identity.

### Optional

- `body` (Dynamic) The request body that is sent when using `POST` method.
- `header` (Map of String) The header parameters that are applied to each request. This overrides the `header` set in the provider block.
- `method` (String) The HTTP Method for the request. Allowed methods are a subset of methods defined in [RFC7231](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7231#section-4.3) namely, `GET`, `HEAD`, and `POST`. `POST` support is only intended for read-only URLs, such as submitting a search. Defaults to `GET`.
- `name` (String) An expression in [gjson query syntax](https://github.com/tidwall/gjson/blob/master/SYNTAX.md#queries), that is used to get the display name of each instance of the List Resource. The value  can be a string literal, or combined by the body param: `$(body.x.y.z)` that expands to the `x.y.z` property of the API body. It can add a chain of functions (applied from left to right), in the form of `$f1.f2(body)`. Supported functions include: `escape` (URL path escape, by default applied), `unescape` (URL path unescape), `query_escape` (URL query escape), `query_unescape` (URL query unescape), `base` (filepath base), `url_path` (path segment of a URL), `trim_path` (trim `path`). Defaults to `$(body.name)`.
- `query` (Map of List of String) The query parameters that are applied to each request. This overrides the `query` set in the provider block.
- `resource_body` (Dynamic) The value of the (nullified) `body` attribute used to compose the Resource Identity.
- `resource_header` (Map of String) The value of the `header` attribute used to compose the Resource Identity.
- `resource_id` (String) An expression in [gjson query syntax](https://github.com/tidwall/gjson/blob/master/SYNTAX.md#queries), that is used to get the id of each instance of the List Resource. The value This can be a string literal, or combined by following params: path param: `$(path)` expanded to `path`, body param: `$(body.x.y.z)` expands to the `x.y.z` property of the API body. Especially for the body param, it can add a chain of functions (applied from left to right), in the form of `$f1.f2(body)`. Supported functions include: `escape` (URL path escape, by default applied), `unescape` (URL path unescape), `query_escape` (URL query escape), `query_unescape` (URL query unescape), `base` (filepath base), `url_path` (path segment of a URL), `trim_path` (trim `path`). Defaults to `$(body.id)`.
- `resource_query` (Map of List of String) The value of the `query` attribute used to compose the Resource Identity.
- `resource_read_response_template` (String) The value of the `read_response_template` attribute used to compose the Resource Identity.
- `resource_read_selector` (String) The value of the `read_selector` attribute used to compose the Resource Identity.
- `selector` (String) A selector in [gjson query syntax](https://github.com/tidwall/gjson/blob/master/SYNTAX.md#queries), that is used to filter resources from the collection
