---
# generated by https://github.com/magodo/terraform-plugin-framework-docs
page_title: "restful Provider"
description: |-
  The restful provider provides resource and data source to interact with a platform that exposes a restful API.
---

# restful Provider

The restful provider provides resource and data source to interact with a platform that exposes a restful API.

## Example Usage

### No Authentication

```terraform
provider "restful" {
  base_url = "http://localhost:3000"
  securty  = {} # optional
}
```

### HTTP Basic

```terraform
provider "restful" {
  base_url = "http://localhost:3000"
  security = {
    http = {
      basic = {
        username = "foo"
        password = "bar"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### HTTP Token

```terraform
provider "restful" {
  base_url = "http://localhost:3000"
  security = {
    http = {
      token = {
        token = "MYTOKEN"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### API Key

```terraform
provider "restful" {
  base_url = "http://localhost:3000"
  security = {
    apikey = [
      {
        in    = "header"
        name  = "Fastly-Key"
        value = "AAAAAAABBBBBBCCCCCC"
      },
    ]
  }
}
```

### OAuth2 Client Credential

```terraform
provider "restful" {
  base_url = "https://management.azure.com"
  security = {
    oauth2 = {
      client_credentials = {
        client_id     = var.client_id
        client_secret = var.client_secret
        token_url     = format("https://login.microsoftonline.com/%s/oauth2/v2.0/token", var.tenant_id)
        scopes        = ["https://management.azure.com/.default"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### OAuth2 Password

```terraform
provider "restful" {
  base_url = var.base_url
  security = {
    oauth2 = {
      password = {
        token_url = format("%s/auth/login", var.base_url)
        username  = var.username
        password  = var.password
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### OAuth2 Refresh Token

```terraform
provider "restful" {
  base_url = "https://management.azure.com"
  security = {
    oauth2 = {
      refresh_token = {
        token_url     = format("https://login.microsoftonline.com/%s/oauth2/v2.0/token", var.tenant_id)
        refresh_token = var.refresh_token
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Schema

### Required

- `base_url` (String) The base URL of the API provider.

	-> Ensure this is a valid HTTP URL.

### Optional

- `client` (Object) The client configuration. See [below for nested schema](#nested--client).
- `create_method` (String) The method used to create the resource. Defaults to `POST`.

	-> Value must be one of: ["PUT" "POST"].
- `delete_method` (String) The method used to delete the resource. Defaults to `DELETE`.

	-> Value must be one of: ["DELETE" "POST"].
- `header` (Map of Strings) The header parameters that are applied to each request.
- `merge_patch_disabled` (Boolean) Whether to use a JSON Merge Patch as the request body in the PATCH update? Defaults to `false`. This is only effective when `update_method` is set to `PATCH`.
- `query` (Map of Lists of Strings) The query parameters that are applied to each request.
- `security` (Object) The OpenAPI security scheme that is be used for auth. See [below for nested schema](#nested--security).
- `update_method` (String) The method used to update the resource. Defaults to `PUT`.

	-> Value must be one of: ["PUT" "PATCH"].

<a id="nested--client"></a>
### Nested Schema for `client`

Optional:

- `certificates` (List of Objects) The client certificates for mTLS. See [below for nested schema](#nested--client.certificates).
- `cookie_enabled` (Boolean) Save cookies during API contracting. Defaults to `false`.
- `retry` (Object) The retry option for the client. See [below for nested schema](#nested--client.retry).
- `root_ca_certificate_files` (List of Strings) The list of certificate file paths of root certificate authorities that clients use when verifying server certificates. If not specified, TLS uses the host's root CA set.

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, these are not set: "[client.root_ca_certificate_files]".

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, also these are set: "[client.certificates]".
- `root_ca_certificates` (List of Strings) The list of certificates of root certificate authorities that clients use when verifying server certificates. If not specified, TLS uses the host's root CA set.

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, these are not set: "[client.root_ca_certificate_files]".

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, also these are set: "[client.certificates]".
- `tls_insecure_skip_verify` (Boolean) Whether a client verifies the server's certificate chain and host name. Defaults to `false`.
<a id="nested--client.certificates"></a>
### Nested Schema for `client.certificates`

Optional:

- `certificate` (String) The client certificate for mTLS.

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, these are not set: "[<.certificate_file]".

	-> Ensure that at least one attribute from this collection is set: [<.key,<.key_file].
- `certificate_file` (String) The path of the client certificate file for mTLS.

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, these are not set: "[<.certificate]".

	-> Ensure that at least one attribute from this collection is set: [<.key,<.key_file].
- `key` (String) The client private key for mTLS.

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, these are not set: "[<.key_file]".

	-> Ensure that at least one attribute from this collection is set: [<.certificate,<.certificate_file].
- `key_file` (String) The path of the client private key file for mTLS.

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, these are not set: "[<.key]".

	-> Ensure that at least one attribute from this collection is set: [<.certificate,<.certificate_file].
<a id="nested--client.retry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `client.retry`

Required:

- `status_codes` (List of Int64s) The status codes that will retry.

Optional:

- `count` (Int64) The maximum allowed retries. Defaults to `3`.
- `max_wait_in_sec` (Int64) The maximum allowed retry wait time. Defaults to `3600`.
- `wait_in_sec` (Int64) The initial retry wait time between two retries in second, if there is no `Retry-After` in the response header, or the `Retry-After` is less than this. The wait time will be increased in capped exponential backoff with jitter, at most up to `max_wait_in_sec` (if not null). Defaults to `1`.
<a id="nested--security"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security`

Optional:

- `apikey` (Set of Objects) Configuration for the API Key authentication scheme. See [below for nested schema](#nested--security.apikey).

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, these are not set: "[security.http,security.oauth2]".
- `http` (Object) Configuration for the HTTP authentication scheme. See [below for nested schema](#nested--security.http).

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, these are not set: "[security.apikey,security.oauth2]".
- `oauth2` (Object) Configuration for the OAuth2 authentication scheme. See [below for nested schema](#nested--security.oauth2).

	-> Ensure that if an attribute is set, these are not set: "[security.http,security.apikey]".
<a id="nested--security.apikey"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security.apikey`

Required:

- `in` (String) Specifies how is the API Key is sent.

	-> Value must be one of: ["header" "query" "cookie"].
- `name` (String) The API Key name
- `value` (String) The API Key value
<a id="nested--security.http"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security.http`

Optional:

- `basic` (Object) Basic authentication See [below for nested schema](#nested--security.http.basic).

	-> Ensure that one and only one attribute from this collection is set: "[security.http.basic,security.http.token]".
- `token` (Object) Auth token (e.g. Bearer). See [below for nested schema](#nested--security.http.token).

	-> Ensure that one and only one attribute from this collection is set: "[security.http.basic,security.http.token]".
<a id="nested--security.http.basic"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security.http.basic`

Required:

- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password.
- `username` (String) The username.
<a id="nested--security.http.token"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security.http.token`

Required:

- `token` (String, Sensitive) The value of the token.

Optional:

- `scheme` (String) The auth scheme. Defaults to `Bearer`.
<a id="nested--security.oauth2"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security.oauth2`

Optional:

- `client_credentials` (Object) [Client credentials](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749#section-4.4). See [below for nested schema](#nested--security.oauth2.client_credentials).

	-> Ensure that one and only one attribute from this collection is set: "[security.oauth2.password,security.oauth2.client_credentials,security.oauth2.refresh_token]".
- `password` (Object) [Resource owner password credential](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749#section-4.3). See [below for nested schema](#nested--security.oauth2.password).

	-> Ensure that one and only one attribute from this collection is set: "[security.oauth2.password,security.oauth2.client_credentials,security.oauth2.refresh_token]".
- `refresh_token` (Object) [Refresh token](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749#section-6). See [below for nested schema](#nested--security.oauth2.refresh_token).

	-> Ensure that one and only one attribute from this collection is set: "[security.oauth2.password,security.oauth2.client_credentials,security.oauth2.refresh_token]".
<a id="nested--security.oauth2.client_credentials"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security.oauth2.client_credentials`

Required:

- `client_id` (String) The application's ID.
- `client_secret` (String, Sensitive) The application's secret.
- `token_url` (String) The token URL to be used for this flow.

Optional:

- `endpoint_params` (Map of Lists of Strings) The additional parameters for requests to the token endpoint.
- `in` (String) Specifies how is the client ID & secret sent. If absent, the style used will be auto detected.

	-> Value must be one of: ["params" "header"].
- `scopes` (List of Strings) The optional requested permissions.
<a id="nested--security.oauth2.password"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security.oauth2.password`

Required:

- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password.
- `token_url` (String) The token URL to be used for this flow.
- `username` (String) The username.

Optional:

- `client_id` (String) The application's ID.
- `client_secret` (String, Sensitive) The application's secret.
- `in` (String) Specifies how is the client ID & secret sent. If absent, the style used will be auto detected.

	-> Value must be one of: ["params" "header"].
- `scopes` (List of Strings) The optional requested permissions.
<a id="nested--security.oauth2.refresh_token"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security.oauth2.refresh_token`

Required:

- `refresh_token` (String, Sensitive) The refresh token.
- `token_url` (String) The token URL to be used for this flow.

Optional:

- `client_id` (String) The application's ID.
- `client_secret` (String, Sensitive) The application's secret.
- `in` (String) Specifies how is the client ID & secret sent. If absent, the style used will be auto detected.

	-> Value must be one of: ["params" "header"].
- `scopes` (List of Strings) The optional requested permissions.
- `token_type` (String) The type of the access token. Defaults to "Bearer".
