---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "restful_operation Resource - terraform-provider-restful"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  restful_operation represents a one-time API call operation.
---

# restful_operation (Resource)

`restful_operation` represents a one-time API call operation.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "restful_operation" "register_rp" {
  path = format("/subscriptions/%s/providers/Microsoft.ProviderHub/register", var.subscription_id)
  query = {
    api-version = ["2014-04-01-preview"]
  }
  method = "POST"
  poll = {
    url_locator    = format("exact./subscriptions/%s/providers/Microsoft.ProviderHub?api-version=2014-04-01-preview", var.subscription_id)
    status_locator = "body.registrationState"
    status = {
      success = "Registered"
      pending = ["Registering"]
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `method` (String) The HTTP method of the API call. Possible values are `PUT`, `POST`, `PATCH` and `DELETE`.
- `path` (String) The path of the API call, relative to the `base_url` of the provider.

### Optional

- `body` (String) The payload of the API call.
- `header` (Map of String) The header parameters that are applied to each request. This overrides the `header` set in the provider block.
- `poll` (Attributes) The polling option for the "API" operation (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--poll))
- `precheck` (Attributes List) An array of prechecks that need to pass prior to the "API" operation. Exactly one of `mutex` or `api` should be specified. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--precheck))
- `query` (Map of List of String) The query parameters that are applied to each request. This overrides the `query` set in the provider block.
- `retry` (Attributes) The retry option for the "API" operation (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--retry))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the operation. Same as the `path`.
- `output` (String) The response body.

<a id="nestedatt--poll"></a>
### Nested Schema for `poll`

Required:

- `status` (Attributes) The expected status sentinels for each polling state. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--poll--status))
- `status_locator` (String) Specifies how to discover the status property. The format is either `code` or `scope.path`, where `scope` can be either `header` or `body`, and the `path` is using the [gjson syntax](https://github.com/tidwall/gjson/blob/master/SYNTAX.md).

Optional:

- `default_delay_sec` (Number) The interval between two pollings if there is no `Retry-After` in the response header, in second. Defaults to `10`.
- `header` (Map of String) The header parameters. This overrides the `header` set in the resource block.
- `url_locator` (String) Specifies how to discover the polling url. The format can be one of `header.path` (use the property at `path` in response header), `body.path` (use the property at `path` in response body) or `exact.value` (use the exact `value`). When absent, the resource's path is used for polling.

<a id="nestedatt--poll--status"></a>
### Nested Schema for `poll.status`

Required:

- `success` (String) The expected status sentinel for suceess status.

Optional:

- `pending` (List of String) The expected status sentinels for pending status.



<a id="nestedatt--precheck"></a>
### Nested Schema for `precheck`

Optional:

- `api` (Attributes) Keeps waiting until the specified API meets the success status (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--precheck--api))
- `mutex` (String) The name of the mutex, which implies the resource will keep waiting until this mutex is held

<a id="nestedatt--precheck--api"></a>
### Nested Schema for `precheck.api`

Required:

- `status` (Attributes) The expected status sentinels for each polling state. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--precheck--api--status))
- `status_locator` (String) Specifies how to discover the status property. The format is either `code` or `scope.path`, where `scope` can be either `header` or `body`, and the `path` is using the [gjson syntax](https://github.com/tidwall/gjson/blob/master/SYNTAX.md).

Optional:

- `default_delay_sec` (Number) The interval between two pollings if there is no `Retry-After` in the response header, in second. Defaults to `10`.
- `header` (Map of String) The header parameters. This overrides the `header` set in the resource block.
- `path` (String) The path used to query readiness, relative to the `base_url` of the provider. By default, the `path` of this resource is used.
- `query` (Map of List of String) The query parameters. This overrides the `query` set in the resource block.

<a id="nestedatt--precheck--api--status"></a>
### Nested Schema for `precheck.api.status`

Required:

- `success` (String) The expected status sentinel for suceess status.

Optional:

- `pending` (List of String) The expected status sentinels for pending status.




<a id="nestedatt--retry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `retry`

Required:

- `status` (Attributes) The expected status sentinels. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--retry--status))
- `status_locator` (String) Specifies how to discover the status property. The format is either `code` or `scope.path`, where `scope` can be either `header` or `body`, and the `path` is using the gjson syntax. In most case, you shall use `code`, as you most not expect a write-like operation to perform multiple times.

Optional:

- `count` (Number) The maximum allowed retries. Defaults to `3`.
- `max_wait_in_sec` (Number) The maximum allowed retry wait time. Defaults to `3600`.
- `wait_in_sec` (Number) The initial retry wait time between two retries in second, if there is no `Retry-After` in the response header, or the `Retry-After` is less than this. The wait time will be increased in capped exponential backoff with jitter, at most up to `max_wait_in_sec` (if not null). Defaults to `1`.

<a id="nestedatt--retry--status"></a>
### Nested Schema for `retry.status`

Required:

- `success` (String) The expected status sentinel for suceess status.

Optional:

- `pending` (List of String) The expected status sentinels for pending status.
