---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "restful_operation Resource - Restful"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  restful_operation represents a one-time API call operation.
---

# restful_operation (Resource)

`restful_operation` represents a one-time API call operation.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `method` (String) The HTTP method of the API call. Possible values are `PUT`, `POST`, `PATCH` and `DELETE`.
- `path` (String) The path of the API call, relative to the `base_url` of the provider.

### Optional

- `body` (String) The payload of the API call.
- `header` (Map of String) The header parameters that are applied to each request. This overrides the `header` set in the provider block.
- `poll` (Attributes) The polling option for the "API" operation (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--poll))
- `query` (Map of List of String) The query parameters that are applied to each request. This overrides the `query` set in the provider block.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the operation. Same as the `path`.
- `output` (String) The response body.

<a id="nestedatt--poll"></a>
### Nested Schema for `poll`

Optional:

- `default_delay_sec` (Number) The interval between two pollings if there is no `Retry-After` in the response header, in second.
- `status` (Attributes) The expected status sentinels for each polling state. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--poll--status))
- `status_locator` (String) Specifies how to discover the status property. The format is either `code` or `<scope>[<path>]`, where `<scope>` can be either `header` or `body`, and the `<path>` is using the [gjson syntax](https://github.com/tidwall/gjson/blob/master/SYNTAX.md).
- `url_locator` (String) Specifies how to discover the polling location. The format is as `<scope>[<path>]`, where `<scope>` can be either `header` or `body`, and the `<path>` is using the [gjson syntax](https://github.com/tidwall/gjson/blob/master/SYNTAX.md). When absent, the resource's path is used for polling.

<a id="nestedatt--poll--status"></a>
### Nested Schema for `poll.status`

Optional:

- `pending` (List of String) The expected status sentinels for pending status.
- `success` (String) The expected status sentinel for suceess status.


